docs(maintainers): improve release process documentation (#7088)
awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-python: docs/maintainers.md

### Releasing a new version

> !!! note "Only maintainers with write permissions to this repository can trigger the pipeline to release a new version"

Reviewer: Not mandatory, but I'd consider rephrasing/simplifying to "Only maintainers with write access to this repository can release new version/can make releases"

Author: Accepted.

Releasing a new version is a multi-step process that takes up to 2 hours to complete. Most steps are automated - you provide inputs to trigger the release and monitor progress.

**Prerequisites**: Ensure the commit history in the `develop` branch is up to date, commit messages are semantic, and include their respective area (e.g., `feat(logger): <change>`, `chore(ci): ...`).

**Release Steps**:

> 1. **Run end-to-end tests** and ensure they pass

Reviewer: Consider linking the workflow page for easy access.

Author: Done

> 2. **Trigger Release v3 workflow** - Run the [`Release v3`](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/actions/workflows/release-v3.yml) workflow with two inputs: the new Powertools version (check [latest version](https://pypi.org/project/aws-lambda-powertools/)) and the new Lambda Layer version number

Reviewer: Consider adding examples here, especially for the layer.

Let's tell the reader exactly where to look and what logic to follow:
- go to this page / run this command to read the latest value from SSM
- add +1 to that number, i.e. if the result is `30`, then you should input `31`

This entire process can be tricky and overwhelming, let's remove as much ambiguity and cognitive load as possible.

3. **Monitor the release workflow** - it runs tests, publishes to PyPI, deploys Lambda layers to Beta and Prod environments across all commercial regions, runs canary tests, and updates documentation. If it fails, see the [Re-run partial failed Release workflow](#re-run-partial-failed-release-workflow) section
4. **Review and merge documentation/version PRs** - two PRs will be created to update documentation and bump version files. Review, approve and merge both (order doesn't matter)

> 5. **Deploy GovCloud layers** - Run the [`Layer Deployment (GovCloud)`](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/actions/workflows/layer_govcloud.yml) workflow with `develop` branch, `Prod` environment, and the Layer version number from step 2. Contact the Powertools team via internal tools if this fails

Reviewer: > Contact the Powertools team via internal tools if this fails

This might be redundant since we said at the top that only maintainers can make releases.

Author: Make sense

6. **Deploy China layers** - Run the [`Layer Deployment (Partitions)`](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/actions/workflows/layers_partitions.yml) workflow with `develop` branch, `Prod` environment, and the Layer version number from step 2. Contact the Powertools team via internal tools if this fails
7. **Update documentation** - Run the [`Rebuild latest docs`](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/actions/workflows/rebuild_latest_docs.yml) workflow with `develop` branch and the PyPI package version

Once complete, you can start drafting the release notes to let customers know **what changed and what's in it for them (a.k.a why they should care)**. We have guidelines in the [release notes](#drafting-release-notes) section so you know what good looks like.

#### Re-run partial failed Release workflow

> While workflows are designed to be stable, failures can occur during the release process. If the Release v3 workflow fails, you have two recovery options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While workflows are designed to be stable, failures can occur during the release process. If the release workflow fails, you have two recovery options:
```

Reviewer: ⬆️ future proofing

**Option 1: Re-run failed jobs**

> If layer deployments fail due to CloudFormation errors (we deploy ~600 layers per release and can't control CloudFormation quotas), you can re-run only the failed jobs. This will retry the deployment and typically resolves quota-related issues.

Reviewer: Can we say the name of the step(s) that can be retried with this mechanism?

Author: Make sense!

**Option 2: Re-trigger the entire workflow**

> If the release fails due to workflow modifications or permission issues that prevent re-running failed jobs, trigger the Release v3 workflow again. In this case, check the `Skip publishing to PyPI as it can't publish more than once. Useful for semi-failed releases` option to avoid PyPI publishing conflicts.

Reviewer: Consider making the "Skip publishing ...." an `> [!important]` callout so it's extra clear

i.e. (but with MKdocs syntax)

---

> [!important]
> Make sure to select "Skip publishing to PyPI as it can't publish more than once. Useful for semi-failed releases" when rerunning the entire workflow to avoid duplicate publishes

Author: Make sense

### Releasing a new version

!!! note "Only maintainers with write access to this repository can release a new version"

Releasing a new version is a multi-step process that takes up to 2 hours to complete. Most steps are automated - you provide inputs to trigger the release and monitor progress.

**Prerequisites**: Ensure the commit history in the `develop` branch is up to date, commit messages are semantic, and include their respective area (e.g., `feat(logger): <change>`, `chore(ci): ...`).

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
**Release Steps**:

> 1. **Run [end-to-end tests](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/blob/develop/.github/workflows/run-e2e-tests.yml)** and ensure they pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Run [end-to-end tests](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/actions/workflows/run-e2e-tests.yml)** and ensure they pass
```

Author: Done
